Numerical politics is a new approach to the study of politics in which we perform numerical experiments on simulated societies in order to gain an understanding of organised, collective behaviour. This repo is intended to provide the software necessary to allow anyone to set up a numerical "laboratory" and start studying simulated societies to this end. In these pages we'll describe how to perform numerical experiements and discuss how the practice of numerical politics can contribute to our understanding of how to effectively govern real-world societies.

Suppose we have a number of interacting agents whose behaviour is defined as a probability distribution $$P(a\|O,\psi)$$ that an agent in state $$\psi$$, that has made observations $$O$$ of its environment, will perform action $$a$$. An action can modify the state of the acting agent, terminate the acting agent's existance or create a new agent. Suppose we also have a measure of individual wellbeing $$W(\psi)$$ based on the state of each agent. Define collective wellbeing as the sum of the wellbeing measures of all agents, $$\sum_\psi W(\psi)$$. The focus of numerical politics is to make predictive statements about collective wellbeing in terms of properties of the behaviour of the agents.

Notice that in this definition there is no mention of government. A goverment, if there is one, is encoded within the behaviours of the agents and is part of the simulation, as opposed to it being an exogenous actor imposing "interventions" on the simulated agents. In this way, a government is best thought of as an emergent property of the agents' behaviours. We choose to make government endogenous because our interest here is *not* to simulate specific potential real-world policies but to understand the fundamental principles of organised, collective behaviour.
